This is one of multiple videos discussing IP version 6 rotting in this example of one and two are connected
via a serial interface these routers have just booted up and have no configuration apart from a default
Jinnah's 3 configuration.
So as an example if we use the command show IP interface brief we don't see any IP addresses configured
on the road as and all interfaces on the roads are shut down.
Show IP V-6 route shows no routes in the IP version 6 writing table because no IP version 6 addresses
have been configured on the Rodda and we can see that by using the command show IP version 6 interface
brief output gives a similar information to what we would see using show IP interface brief.
All interfaces are shut down.
So on Rodda one I'm getting Nabl IP version 6 unicast rotting and then go into the serial interface
and shut the interface and configure an IP version 6 address of 2001 Colan one code on one slash 64.
Now when we look at the IP version 6 rotting table we see that a connected network exists as well as
a local network the local network is the IP address configured on that interface.
So this is the IP address thats configured on the serial zero interface which we can see as follows.
We're using a slash 64 mask so the connected network is displayed with a slash 64 mosque.
But the 128 bit IP address is shown in the output as well.
Rhodos will create the IP version 6 of routes based on the unique cost IP version 6 address configured
on the interface.
So this command results in the network appearing in the writing table the Rato also creates the host
wrocht or local ront using 128 but prefix for the IP version 6 address configured on the interface.
If we shut that interface down and then look at the writing table again you can see that the IP address
has been removed from the writing table.
So in the same way as we have with IP version 4 the wrapped only appears in the running table when the
interface comes up so interface Cyrille to slash zeros is now up up so we have the subnet or connected
route and to the local route or host route added to the writing table.
If the interface goes down the route is removed from the writing table or create a loopback address
on this router with an IP version 6 address of 2001 face.
Column one colon colon one slash 64.
So show IPV six ROFFT should show us that that router is added Kirit is the connected network and there
is the local router IP address on route too.
We still don't have any IP addresses configured.
So show IPV 6 ROFFT shows us no routes in the IP version 6 writing table only enable IP version 6 unicast
routing and then go into the serial interface and no shut it and configure an IP version 6 address on
the interface of 2001 Colan one colon colon to slash 64.
While I'm here all configure the loopback address as you can see the Sybrand faces now come up on both
sides so loopback interface will be 2001 Kahlon face colon to Colon colon one so show IPV six Raat we
can see multiple Ronsin in the writing table has the connected route for the serial connected route
for the loopback local romped or Rato Robert for the serial and lookback now will rot to be able to
ping wrote a one on the serial interface.
Answer is yes and that's because they are directly connected to one another and they are configured
in the same subnet.
Sarada one can also ping rodded too.
We can prove that by doing a debug commands are very similar to our provision for so debug RPV 6 ICMP
when we do the paying.
We can see the output in a similar way to IP version full notice IP version for shows no Wrath's in
the writing table because we haven't configured any IP version for addresses on these routers.
This network is running a PIA IPV CICS implementation.
We'll rockety be able to ping the loopback of one.
What do you think will.
To be able to ping the loopback of a one debug IP packet will show us the result.
So let's ping the loop back of a broader one ECA request is being sent.
And I did the wrong debug.
They be careful of that mistake.
That she's debug IPV 6 Pacak rather and see what happens now.
So this is better.
I can see an echo is being sent to stop the ping.
No so an echo is being sent.
The rhodos picked the address as the source address.
In other words the serial interface will outgoing interface is used as the source address for ICMP traffic
something very similar will happen an IP version for such TRONSON in an echo to that address.
Using this local IP address with a destination set to that and the important piece is noticed route
is not found again.
ROFFT is not found.
Rock is not found.
The Rodek cannot send traffic to that destination network because it doesn't appear in the IP version
6 routing table.
So what we need to do here is configure static routes.
In this example because we are using a serial interface we can configure a route using the local outgoing
interface so very similar to our provision for begin to use the IPV 6 rumped command and specified the
destination Raat which is two thousand and one face cold on one colon colon slash 64 and the local outgoing
interface is going to be Sariel to slash 0.
So now can we paying that network.
Yes we can.
We're getting a lot of debug information so I'll turn off the debug.
Scrolling up you can see that the pings succeeded.
And if we do that again notice we can ping the lookback of wrote a one I wrote of one doesn't know about
the loopback overloaded too so we need to configure that.
IPV six ront destination is 2001 Coloma face colon to cold and cold on one slash 64 aren't going to
face is going to be Ciril to slash is zero.
So show RPV six route we can see that rumped added to the writing table.
And we should be able to paying two thousand and one face to code on column one.
And that works.
So again just like with provision for.
You need to have a rot in the writing table to be able to reach a destination network.
In this example we've added routes using static routes to the IP version 6 routing table and using the
local outgoing interface rather then next hop address so show run piping clewed route shows us that
we are using the outgoing local interface to get to the destination network that works well you know
point to point serial connection such as this but won't work well when using Ethernet when using Ethernet.
You should use the next hop IP address these routers are using C30 725 software version 12. four of
the IRS in a subsequent video.
All configure steady Grotz using Next Top IP address but I'll use version 15 software and I'll use viral
images to do that.
I hope you've enjoyed this video.
If you have please like it please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.